the moment we've all been waiting for is
here in today's video I'm going to break
down exactly what the Federal Reserve
said what was expected and did they
actually do what most believe they would
you came here for the truth so let me
unveil that for you the stock market
investors crypto investors they're all
rejoicing right now because of what
Jerome Powell said and didn't say I'm
going to show you exactly I'm going to
give you the charts I'm going to give
you all the numbers and I'm going to do
it as quick as I can stick with me let's
begin first things first you can see the
actual statement coming out here
directly from the horse's mouth so I saw
this statement at 2: p.m. I was
refreshing the screen I got that I made
a post on the community section I then
waited for 2:30 Powell comes out he
reads his speech after he reads his
speech he then takes questions from the
reporters all right so I sit through
this stuff so that you don't have to and
it is very obvious that they did this
now this the speech I'm going to show
you in a second the official statement I
should say and then uh you can look at
the differences between the statement
and what was in the previous statement
and it's actually quite interesting I'm
going to show you that in a second okay
and basically two things to note here
they left interest rates the same I'm
sure you already heard that they have
not raised they have not cut but this is
also important the committee is strongly
committed to returning inflation to its
2% objective I don't know what's going
on out there some people are saying that
there is no 2% goal of the FED that is
not true I really it's it's right there
Powell said it in that conference as
well as it is here multiple times not
just one time but multiple times on the
federalreserve.gov webbsite 2% objective
we know that they actually don't want to
get inflation down that's a whole
different story I'm talking about
surface level information 2% uh this was
it you know if you I I believe the
replays are there for those who would
like to be in pain for over half an hour
this is the statement itself the only
thing that changed was that area in red
the entire statement from the previous
one is exactly the same okay so we know
that not much has changed in this regard
they are looking and waiting for
inflation to remain the direction that
it has and not flare up again it doesn't
matter real inflation and the stuff that
you got to pay for
you know they're looking at their
measures of inflation they said it's
good so they're happy they're just
waiting for a little bit more so what
does that mean we'll talk about that in
a second fed raises GDP predic
predictions for 2024 still sees three
Cuts in this year in 2024 three Cuts
that's what they said now you might be
asking yeah right that's not going to
happen look there has been some big
changes I'll cover those two right now
so you don't have to wait any longer the
two big things that happened in this
conference that hadn't happened at the
previous ones was that Jerome Powell
said these two things and he had never
said them before he would beat around
the bush the reporters they would
question him and he would ah you know
what and he would get around it this
time though he said two things very
first thing is that and this is you know
actually out of his mouth okay that um
they would be cutting interest rates
this year assuming the data continues
the way it is I didn't say the data is
getting better I said the data the way
it is now this is going to cause them to
cut interest rates that's what he's
saying that's what he's saying he's
never said that before as of today okay
and the second thing was talking about
quantitative
tightening if you remember uh previously
I did a video if you're here on this
channel I talked about it uh in January
as I'll show you the video in just a
second and I multiple times anyway but
the one that I found here was because I
was referencing Lori Logan so I did a
search through my previous ones for Lori
Logan and they're talking about
quantitative tightening and essentially
the expectation was that they would slow
down quantitative tightening if you
heard me say that before please put it
in the comments for anybody new uh but
again I have been accurate on this
simply because I've been following it so
intently for so long that it's a
Playbook that they tend to follow and so
here we are expected every single step
step of the way feds Powell says balance
sheet draw down taper coming soon that's
the one that we're looking at that's out
of his mouth remember I'm not
speculating I'm not talking nonsense or
you know some random guy on YouTube uh
this is it this is here it will be
appropriate to slow the pace of the
runoff fairly soon he did not offer a
specific time frame on the decision
saying that only uh officials are not
debating so that has begun that debate
has begun amongst the fomc to decide
when are we going to start this taper so
assuming you know at this next meeting
that they would give the official
information about that and that's where
we're at okay so uh that is technically
a little bit bullish it's part of this
um you know change in tune that has been
going on at the Federal Reserve since uh
earlier last year all right this is the
video right here if you remember it uh
you know I put the tape over Jerome
Powell's mouth there and basically what
we're looking at at this time is that
they have you know in that video I
talked about you know Lori Logan saying
they are going to start a taper that
would be the most appropriate thing to
do and then that would also help to not
just be a so a dramatic stop as soon as
they would you know end this program
perhaps it would impact the re reverse
repost as well okay so that's going on
at this time this is brand new
information
This truly was unexpected for so many
people cuz they were saying oh they're
going to increase they're going to
increase cuz inflation's going up
they're going to increase uh absolutely
did not happen and uh that's a whole
different story um here we have us CPI
is becoming entrenched and part of this
there's two things here CPI uh the
Federal Reserve does look at CPI but
more importantly for them they look at
the core pce so CPI consumer price index
pce personal consumption expenditure
different ways to measure and of course
neither of them are accurate uh for you
the individual uh but hey you know why
not uh so this is what they do and
they're showing us this information that
is being entrenched others refer to it
as sticky and so what's happening is
that these prices won't necessarily go
down to 2% you're not going to
necessarily see that and they are going
to be comfortable with it they're going
to say yeah it's going to get there it's
going to take a little while we're
comfortable with that you know it's
moving in the right direction and we
didn't create uh terrible unemployment
the job is done okay so that's kind of
what they'll do at the same time you
could see this okay so you're seeing the
feds fed funds rate which they've been
keeping at this level here at this time
the blue line is financial conditions
there are different ways to measure
Financial conditions and all these
things and Goldman Sachs has one and you
know this is Bloomberg ber one all you
need to know is that Financial
conditions are easier than they are were
I should say back when the Federal
Reserve started to increase interest
rates so we moved all the way up and the
financial conditions are now easier part
of financial conditions is uh the
expectation of what will happen so the
expectation here is all been about Cuts
we're going to cut cut cut cut cut and
so that's what the market loves and
that's what it wants and so here we are
okay so if they start to cut interest
rates oh my goodness do you want to know
how you can take advantage of this
information stick with me we're not done
yet okay nobody else is covering it at
this level of depth and actually
categorically you know defining each and
every one of these variables um what has
happened here I'm going to give you
three pieces of information the dollar
immediately started to go down this is
of course do Dollar in relation to other
currencies so anytime you see this if
you want to be able to just have an idea
whenever they talk about increasing
interest rates being strong about that
that helps to support the the US dollar
and of course when they talk about
cutting interest rates that puts it in
the opposite direction okay if you're
outside of the United States you want to
try and earn those US dollars but at the
same time you know for me I say uh oh I
hope that US dollar stays strong because
the currency exchange is a wonderful
thing
all right you have gold going above 2200
right now for obvious reasons they're
talking about devaluing the currency and
as a result gold wins and then last but
not least this is going to change you
know 45 seconds after I uh stop
recording this video this is
cryptocurrencies specifically Bitcoin
there it was down to approximately
63,000 after going up above 70,000 and
here it is at the time of this recording
you know just under 60 8,000 again
nothing moves up in a straight line but
of course when we hear talking about you
know the cutting interest rates I look
for Bitcoin first and then usually the
next day that's what happens in the
stock market it's not so much like that
but we're you know bitcoin's a 24hour
market we're going to get a little bit
of insight there as to what's going to
happen in the markets I look at like
first Bitcoin then tech stocks then S&P
then the Dow Jones in that sort of order
okay and so what I think for a lot of
people right now what they can do is
realize that we are moving into a more
inflationary World they want to set fire
to this you know the prices basically
that you're paying they want to generate
this Inferno and they're doing a very
good job of it let me tell you so what
you can do as an individual if you've
got to buy something you know you're
going to need to buy it in 6 months the
chances are it's going to be cheaper
today than it is over at that point so
you're basically getting it on sale
nobody necessarily complains when you
have too much it might crowd out your
house a little bit but that's never a
bad idea rarely a bad idea at the same
time you need to learn new skills skills
that are adapting into this Century uh
so many people have very outdated skills
and they wonder why slowly over a period
of time of their career they're saying
hey I'm not really keeping up with
inflation a lot of times that's just the
way it goes um you know and your assets
in general you need to if you're outside
of the United States you got to learn
how to or even if you're inside the
United States there are other currencies
out there that are worth more than your
currency and so you can earn a
percentage of your total earnings in
those other currencies bring them back
in and now suddenly you might have made
20 30 40% on your money in some cases a
lot more than that you know you got to
think like that think outside the box we
are in a um online world today and you
got to get on with that if you are
interested in any of this more
information Finance Friday live two
hours every Friday I talk to people in
depth about that as well as the Sunday
business live where we go in depth on
how to build an online business how to
diversify in a way that you know others
just they don't talk about these
YouTubers who are making money from an
online business won't tell you about
making money in an online business they
just sell you a course on that anyway if
you're interested link is in the
description okay I I hope to see you
there as always hit that thumbs up
button I watch the FED stuff so that you
don't have to I sit through Jerome
Powell so that you don't have to all I
ask for is a thumbs up and of course
I'll see you tomorrow take care